plays of the week and so much more oh my
deep to left field and the Braves k the
flight pitching the met him
welcome to Dodgers weekly I'm Chris
McGee coming up on Dodgers weekly will
take you down to the Dominican Republic
to show you around camp a la palma and
explain just how big of an impact it has
had on the baseball world whose 1987
where we open door here for this
baseball I got it sweetie put a little
more than 40 ball players after that
we'll go inside one of the top athletic
training facilities right here in
Southern California to see some of the
tools big leaguers use the train coming
up on Dodgers weekly will introduce you
to a longtime member of the Dodgers
family who recently got the opportunity
take center stage down on the field and
then we'll head out to rancho cucamonga
to athletic republic to see some of
baseball's most innovative training
tools
that's a great story about a long time
Dodger employee now we want to take you
inside to one of the top athletic
training facilities in Southern
California athletic republic is a
world-class Center which utilizes
scientifically researched methods to
maximize individual performance and has
been home to former dodgers Jim Thome
and Juan Pierre let's take a look
welcome to athletic Republican little
Empire athletic republic does the
largest sports performance training
company in the nation with 160 locations
nationwide and worldwide well let's get
started with Nike and their sports
science division now what we're able to
do is train them neurologically we are
actually able to train their brain and
train their vision we do this with one
with the Nike SST kiosk this machine
gives us the availability to be able to
one get a proper vision screening
analysis on an athlete and from taking
that information now what we're able to
do is expand those neurological
processes and make them a better athlete
in a reaction and vision when I put on
the strobes unable to focus more after I
take them off and then I got in the
balance and it makes me it makes me have
to rely on everything else that I'm
using with my brain and with my eyes to
really focus on what I'm doing athletic
republic has 20 years of research and
development behind its training we
actually holds six patents on the
training equipment that we use one of
those machines is our super treadmill
this treadmill has the capability to run
up to 28 and a half miles an hour
and goes to an incline of 40 degrees
athletes have run hills and stares for
years to develop propulsive power well
we're able to do here is in a controlled
environment actually trained the athlete
to have the proper running skills in
running form and provide that propulsive
power and driving them through we work
on the two things that are going to make
an athlete run faster stride frequency
and stride lean the pro batter is the
most functional tool in training a
baseball player through their hitting
mechanics but the pro batter does is it
gives us the opportunity to actually
have the player in a live situation so
what we're able to do now is we can
choose fastball curve slurve change
slider sinker cutter or splitter we can
put the pitcher either in a wind-up or a
stretch we can manipulate the speed
based on the level that we have chosen
so we've chosen the collegiate level
here I can work the zone as far as where
I want it to be
and it's very very good to even use for
catchers to work on their receiving so
often a hitter will will work on their
mechanics through soft paws or some
other method but now what I'm able to do
is take him and put him in a game like
situation and work on his mechanics
coming up on Dodgers weekly your Dodgers
plays of the week stick around